All right, I hope the videos are
packing up you with a lot
of knowledge and that's
why you probably would consider
to rate us as well.
Hopefully you have done that.
Anyways, let's go ahead and now
talk about types of function.
This is really an interesting topic.
So as we see that the functions
are really the core of building
large scale projects in the Python,
but there are actually variety
of types of function.
Now again, this is not really
specific that there is actually
a type, but people love to have
a differentiation between them.
For example, we have pure
VS impure function.
I'll show you what they are.
We also have another types as well.
I'll just go ahead
and add this one here.
Some things are known as
recursive functions.
Yes, there's actually a name for it,
recursive function functions.
Some functions don't even
have names as well.
Yeah, how does that work if
function doesn't have a name?
Yes, there is a way of how
to deal with them as well.
So these are known as anonymous
function, but in the world
of Python they are famously known as
lambdas, lambdas or also known as
anonymous function Anonymous.
Hope I wrote that Correct,
Anonymous functions.
But again whatever you call
them, they are just functions
and they are just type of it.
Don't worry too much about that.
So let's go ahead and talk
about them that how the function
can actually behave.
First of all, let's start
with the basic one which is
pure VS impure function.
What they are, let's go ahead
and close this, we'll have
another one, we're not
running out of the files.
So this one is types of function,
types of functions py.
All right, first of all
let's talk about the pure
functions in pure function.
So let's just say you define
that this is pure chai.
Hope you'll remember that always.
We simply go ahead and say cups and
we simply I'll just close my AI
editor, it's bothering and I go
ahead and simply say I want to
return whatever the cups value
pass me up, I go ahead and
multiply it by 10.
All right.
This is known as pure function.
It doesn't alter any
ingredient globally.
The moment you touch anything
globally for example, it
doesn't need to be at the very top
of the file as well.
Globally can be any variable which
is available in the global scope.
So I go ahead and say totalchai,
and you can see if the total chai
value is, let's just say zero.
Our top function still doesn't change
or any way manipulate this one.
But if I go ahead and say, impure
chai, hope this will help you
to remember this always.
This one also asks for the cup,
but apart from the cups, this one
somehow manipulates this one.
I hope the knowledge is still
with you that we can actually
use global as a variable.
And then I can go ahead and say I
have the access now, I want to
access the total chai and
whatever the total chai that we
have is, simply go ahead and
plus equals cups or somehow
manipulate that.
This is known as impure function.
And what's the most important
part about this is
that this is not recommended.
Yeah, I have discussed the reason
in the past as well.
Recommended.
All right, so this is
not a recommended way.
Again, make sure you always
remember you never want
to touch these things.
This can actually eventually lead
to some of these implications
which we don't see right now.
So remember, pure functions just
work with their in itself.
Impure functions are
usually not recommended.
They are supposed to be avoided.
But if you're writing them, you
know that this is not recommended
and this is an impure function.
The next one that we have, we have
talked about this pure and impure.
Next one we talk about, want to talk
about is recursive function.
You might have seen this topic
quite often in your data
structures and algorithm class.
This means the function
is going to call itself.
Yeah, but it's not going
to call like endlessly.
There's always a trip,
condition which ends it.
For example, if I go ahead
and say I have a poor chai,
I'm pouring the chai and I'll just
pass on a variable n here.
And we simply go ahead and say if n
is equals to zero,
then we go ahead and say return.
This means we just end the function.
We simply go ahead and say, all
right, cups poured,
something like that.
And in all the other cases
we simply go ahead and return,
the same calling of the function
poorchai, but we this time
call it with n minus 1.
So this is a little tricky.
But I'll show you by taking you
on the board itself that what does
this function actually does.
So you're going to notice that
if we have this function,
this is a very interesting case
study of a function itself.
If you have this function, let's
just say the first value we go
ahead and say this value is, oops.
The value that we
are giving is three.
All right?
So the value three goes
inside this function up here
and especially up here.
Come on There we go.
It goes up here.
The value is not zero.
So it's going to go ahead
and call the function again
with the value of n minus 1.
So 3 automatically becomes 2.
It again goes ahead and call this.
But this function will be
called with the value 2.
Again, it is not 0.
So then it again calls the function
with the value of one.
You guessed it right.
So we get the value of one.
Now again the function
goes inside this one.
It goes up here again.
Since it's not zero, it will
be called one more time.
And finally, when the value actually
becomes 0, then this 0 will go
up here and this will say, okay,
this time the n is equals to zero.
So it will simply say
return all cubs board.
So notice here how many
times actually we are calling
the function itself.
And believe it or not,
this is actually a technique
used quite a lot.
So I'll just go ahead and print
this one here and I will say
go ahead and pour the chai.
Let's use the same example.
But three.
Three is good enough.
I'll just go ahead and run this.
And notice here, we are
just returning it.
Notice here remaining is 20.
Again, we should be
pouring the chai printing.
We're just returning the things
we are not printing.
So all cups are poured.
Why we don't get it?
Let's run this one more time.
Why we are not getting this value?
My bad.
I'm running the wrong file.
That's the reason.
Silly me.
11 run this.
And there we go.
It says all cups poured.
So although we get the result.
But if we go ahead and print
the value of N just before
checking off anything, I
think that would be useful.
So let's just say we print just the N
and let's just run this.
And there we go.
We get this three,
then two, then one, then finally
one, then finally zero.
And then finally it
says all cap board.
This, recursion is a very,
very classic technique of doing
a lot of complex tasks.
But yeah, it works.
Now, last but not
the least is the lambdas.
They are very fun.
Little bit tricky for a lot
of people to go through with
it, but hey, this is okay.
You'll be there.
For example, let's go up here.
And there we go.
Let's say we have, chai types.
We have a lot of types of chai.
Let's just say the first one being,
we have a list of them.
The first one being a light chai.
Then we have a, karak chai.
That means a very strong One.
Then we have a famous ginger T.
Then we go have and probably have
again reputation.
Oh goodness.
We have seen reputation.
So notice here, this is one here,
this is one here, this is one here.
But this is exactly same.
So maybe you want to filter out all
the cups that are not Kadak chai.
Or you can use any other
variable if this is too
difficult for you to say.
So I can just go ahead
and say I will have a variable
known as strong, chai.
All right, so in this I want
to filter out this thing.
So here's the interesting part.
How can I do this?
I can go ahead and call
this one as a list.
I'll prepare a fresh list again
and as soon as I go ahead
and use this list, this is a built
in immutable sequence.
I, I can use a filter here.
Notice here it's a filter.
It returns an iterator.
That means, yeah, it's going
to return you again, a list.
And the way how you use it is
you pass on a function to it.
And most of the time you
are not going to see people
passing you functions.
They actually usually pass
on a lambda here.
And again notice here there's no
argument that hey, can I
always just only pass lambdas?
No, you can pass on functions
as well, no problem there.
But if I go ahead and use
filter, this is the syntax,
I go ahead and provide
the filter just like this.
The first argument is your lambda.
And the second argument that you have
to provide is where should iterate.
So you should iterate
over chai types.
All right, this is all good.
Hopefully that is this
is second argument.
The first argument is
the function name.
So the function name
could be anything.
So for example, if we
have function name.
Yeah, we have poorchai.
You can go ahead
and literally say poor chai.
This will be all happy.
But this is not what most people do.
Most people try to write this
function just for once because
they don't want to use it again.
It's a very simple one.
For example, I can just use
a lambda instead of the def.
We use lambda because these
functions don't have a name.
Now what happens in this one
is I go ahead and say chai.
And the reason I'm calling this
Chai because this is my
iteratable and I have to name each
of this variable something.
It could be chai, it
could be anything else.
Then you go ahead and put up a colon.
That means I want
to do something now.
And I will say chai
is equals, equals.
I'll just look for kadak
and you can look for anything else.
I'll just make this all in one line.
It's easier to see this way.
This is a little bit
of a syntax involved.
Syntax.
Now what you're going to see
what's the expected result.
Now the result simply says I want to
filter out and only the value gets
out of this filter which are true.
So first we simply say I want
to go through this loop.
All right, you go through
this entire loop.
I am saying that each of
the variable, whatever these values
are, I'm going to call them as chai.
You can call them Superman.
Nobody is bothering on that part.
But only return me the result
when this condition is met.
So when the chai name is equals
to Kadak, only return me
that and store that as a list.
So what's going to be
in the strong chai?
Two times this one because
this matches up two times.
So that is the result we have got.
I'll show you one more
interesting result as well
which is commonly used.
So if I go ahead and print out
the strong chai, this is
something that I should know what
I will get as a result.
Value.
Notice here we get two
times of the Karak chi.
Hope that's clear.
Now what you're also going to notice
sometimes people say I want a result
which is not equals to Karakchai.
So what do you think what is going
to happen when I just say this?
That means hey, this is not Karakcha.
I will return that this is true.
Is this Karakchai?
Oh, this is not equals to.
So only true part will get that.
Is it not Kadak?
No, it is Karak.
It is true.
So I hope you get that we
have reversed the logic.
If I'll explain it more I'll
probably confuse you more.
So notice here we get
something like this.
So whenever we want to make a fresh
list where I want to delete some
objects or something, whatever the
ID you have passed me on in a todo,
I usually use this logic that hey,
just make a fresh list and which
don't use the ID which user has
given me.
So we just avoid the ones which we
match exactly and we get the idea.
So this is really really fun that
we have and that we can do again.
Try to practice this.
This is a very new syntax.
Because this function doesn't have
a name, it's just use and throw.
We use it once and then
we just forget about it.
Little bit of a new syntax.
But try it one more
time, get some examples.
Try to practice it a little
bit and you will get it.
So this is all about your Lambdas,
also known as Anonymous function.
Pretty fun, isn't it?
Let's catch up in the next video.
And don't forget to rate.